● what is mongoDb?
    NoSQL database management System.
    we can  store, manage, and retrieve large volumes of unstructured or semi-structured data.

● Where is Mongo DB used?
     Mongo Db is used as a Web application as a back-end database.

● Difference bw relation and non relation database
     In relational databases, data is organized into tables with rows and columns, and each table has a predefined schema that defines
     the data types and relationships between tables. Data is stored in a structured manner, and relationships between tables are maintained using foreign keys.
     it has fixed schema.
     eg:MySQL, PostgreSQL, ORACLE, MariaDB

     A non-relational database, also known as a NoSQL (Not Only SQL) database, is a type of database management system that does not use the traditional 
     tabular structure found in relational databases. Instead, it employs various data models, such as key-value, document, column-family, or graph-based models, 
     to store and manage data in a more flexible and scalable manner.
     Flexible Schema: NoSQL databases are schema-flexible, meaning each record or document within the database can have different attributes or fields. 
     This flexibility allows developers to store and retrieve data without a fixed schema, making it ideal for handling dynamic or evolving data structures.
     eg:- Mongo DB, Apache Cassandra, OrientDB, DynamoDB, google’s -BigTable.

● Collection
      A collection is a groups of documents. A collection is the equivalent of a table in a relational database system

● document
     a way to organize and store data 
     a document is the basic unit of data storage and representation. It is the equivalent of a row or record in a relational database.
     A document in MongoDB is a JSON-like data structure that consists of field-value pairs,
     MongoDB internally uses BSON (Binary JSON) to represent and store documents.  

● BSON (Binary json)
     Binary version of json.
     BSON - MongoDB stores documents (objects) in a format called BSON. The
     reason why BSON is used is BSON supports much more datatypes than json

● JSON
      JSON is a data format  that is easy for humans to read and write 
      JSON is a text-based data format, and its data is represented using key-value pairs, where keys are strings, and values can be strings,
      numbers, booleans, arrays, objects, or null.

● Comparison Operators - 
      $in , $nin , $ne, $eq, $gt ,$lt ,$gte , $lte

●  Logical Operators 
      - $and, $or, $not, $nor

●  UPSERT
        upsert() - upsert is a method that is used to insert and update the value in any
        operation. the MongoDB upsert method is a combination of insert and update.
        By default, the upsert method's value is always false. If the document matches
        the specified query and the method's value is set to true, the update operation
        will update the matching documents. If the document does not match the
        specified query and the method's value is true, this method inserts a new
        document in the collection. This new document contains the fields that indicate
        the operation.

●  Array update Operators - 
        $push , $pop , $pull , $pullall , $ - positional operator$all() , $size()$addtoset()

●  EXISTS   
        $exists - checking the existence of the field in the specified collection using the $exists operator.

●  $ELEMMATCH
   
●  Field Filters - db.person.find({}, { name:1 , age:0})
        Field filtering in MongoDB allows you to control which fields are returned in the query results. By specifying which fields to include or exclude,
 
●  $regex -
      db.person.find({name: {$regex:/rel/i}})  where ever the rel present in the name it will show .
      $regex - db.person.find({name: {$regex:/^rel/i}}) if name starts with rel then that document shows
      $regex - db.person.find({name: {$regex:/rel$/i}}) if name ends with rel then that document shows. 

●  Agregation
     In MongoDB, the aggregation framework allows you to perform advanced data processing and transformation operations on the data stored in collections. 
     it is a way of processing a large number ofdocuments in a collection by means of passing them through different stages.

●  OUt stage
      The $out stage is the last stage in the pipeline and it writes the resulting documents to a specified collection. 

●  Unwind
      Unwind - $unwind Deconstructs an array field from the input documents to output a document for each element.
      $unwind stage is used to deconstruct an array field in a document and produce a new document for each element in the array.
      This is particularly useful when you have documents with arrays and want to perform further operations on the individual array elements.

●  aggregation pipeline
      The aggregation pipeline refers to a specific flow of operations that processes, transforms, and returns results. 
      It allows you to take a collection of documents (data) and apply a series of steps (stages) to transform, filter, and analyze that data to get meaningful results.

●  AllowDiskuse
      Allowdiskuse - all aggregation stages can use a maximum of 100 MB of RAM. Use allowDiskUse() to either allow or prohibit writing temporary files on disk
      when a pipeline stage exceeds the 100 MB limit. Syntax: {allowDiskUse:true}

●  Accumilators
     $sum, $min, $max, $avg

●  Unary operators
     $type, $or, $lt, $gt, $and, $multiply

●  Lookup -
      The $lookup operator is an aggregation operator or an aggregation
      stage, which is used to join a Document from one collection to a document of
      another collection of the same database.

●  MongoDB utilities
      MongoDB utilities, also known as MongoDB tools, are software programs provided by MongoDB to help people manage and work with their MongoDB databases more easily. 
      MongoDB utilities are a set of tools provided by MongoDB to manage and maintain MongoDB databases.
      mongoexport-
        it is used to export data from a MongoDB collection to an external file. It generates a JSON, CSV, or TSV file containing the exported data.
        Exports MongoDB collection data into JSON or CSV format
      mongoImport-
         it is used to import data from an external file (e.g., JSON, CSV, TSV) into a MongoDB collection.
         Imports MongoDB collection data in JSON or CSV format
      MongoDumb -
          It is used to create a binary export of a MongoDB database or specific collections.
          This tool is commonly used for creating backups of MongoDB data, which can be later restored using mongorestore.
          A backup is a copy of your database and its contents at a specific point in time. It serves as a safety net, allowing you to recover your
          data in case of data loss, accidental deletion, hardware failure, or other unforeseen circumstances.   
          "When you use mongodump to create binary export files in BSON format, you are making a copy of your MongoDB data that captures exactly 
          how it looks at a specific moment in time. 
          The advantage of using mongodump is that this snapshot (backup) is in a special binary format called BSON, which is very efficient 
          and can accurately represent all the different types of data MongoDB uses
       Mongorestore -
         used to restore the binary backups of MongoDB, indexes will be recreated
●  indexes 
        Indexes - In MongoDB, an index is a data structure that improves the performance of queries by allowing them to quickly locate the specific documents they are looking for.

●  Distinct
        The distinct() method in MongoDB is primarily used to get a list of unique or distinct values from a specific field in a collection.
        It provides a way to extract all the different values that exist in that field without any duplicates.
          eg: [
                  { "_id": 1, "name": "Apple", "color": "Red" },
                  { "_id": 2, "name": "Banana", "color": "Yellow" },
                  { "_id": 3, "name": "Apple", "color": "Green" },
                  { "_id": 4, "name": "Orange", "color": "Orange" },
                  { "_id": 5, "name": "Apple", "color": "Yellow" },
                  { "_id": 6, "name": "Grapes", "color": "Purple" }
              ]
              db.fruits.distinct("name");
              [
                  "Apple",
                  "Banana",
                  "Orange",
                  "Grapes"
             ]


●   Capped collection - 
        Fixed-size collections are called capped collections in MongoDB. While creating a collection, the user must 
        specify the collection's maximum size in bytes and the maximum number of documents it would store.
        Syntax- isCapped()
        Once the collection reaches its size limit, new documents will replace the oldest ones

●  cap theorm
       The CAP Theorem is a concept that a distributed database system can only guarantee two out of three characteristics: Consistency, Availability, and Partition tolerance.
       This theorem is applicable to all distributed systems, including MongoDB.
       Consistency: Consistency means that all clients see the same data at the same time, even with concurrent updates.
                    So, a write operation by one client is immediately seen by all other clients.

                    eg:Suppose we have a user profile for "John" stored in the database. His age is initially set to 30.

                        Client A sends a request to update John's age to 31.
                        At the same time, Client B sends a request to read John's profile.
                        In a consistent system:

                        The update operation sent by Client A will be immediately seen by all other clients (including Client B) after the update is complete.
                        Client B will read John's profile with the updated age of 31.
                        So, in a consistent system, all clients see the same data at the same time. If one client performs an update, all other clients reading that
                        data will see the updated value.
                        [need more clarification]
       Availability: Availability means that all clients can always read and write data. It doesn't matter whether there's a network issue or if some of the servers 
                     are down, the system is still available for read/write operations. 
                     [need more]
       Partition tolerance:It means that the distributed system can continue to function correctly even if some parts of the system are unable to communicate
       with each other due to network failures or partitions.

● Replication 
    - MongoDB replication is the process of creating a copy of the same data set in more than one MongoDB server.This can be achieved by using a Replica Set.
      Replication in MongoDB is the process of creating and maintaining copies of the database across multiple servers
      If the primary node fails, one of the secondaries automatically becomes the new primary, providing seamless failover and allowing the database to remain operational.
      In a replication setup, the minimum number of servers required to store data is two: one primary server and one secondary server 
● Replic set-
     
● Normalisation
    helps to avoid repeating the same information multiple times, making your data more efficient and easier to manage. 
    The goal of normalization is to minimize data duplication and ensure that each piece of information is stored only once, in the most appropriate place.

    Normalized (With Normalization):
      In a normalized structure, you create two separate collections: one for "products" and another for "categories." Each product document will only store a reference to the category it belongs to using a unique category ID:

      Collection: "categories"

            {
            "_id": 1,
            "name": "Electronics"
            }

      Collection: "products"
            {
            "name": "Smartphone",
            "category_id": 1,
            "price": 499.99
            }

      Now, the category information is stored in a separate collection, and each product document only contains a reference to the corresponding category 
      ID (in this case, 1 for "Electronics").
      To retrieve the category information inside the product document, you need to perform a separate query to the "categories" collection using the
      "category_id" as the lookup value.
      const product = db.products.findOne({ "name": "Smartphone" });
      const category = db.categories.findOne({ "_id": product.category_id });
     

     The database becomes easier to manage, and data integrity is improved by normalization

● DEnormalisation
     Denormalization is the process of intentionally introducing redundancy into a database by combining related data into a single database table or document.
     The goal of denormalization is to improve read performance and simplify complex queries, even if it results in data duplication. 
     {
      "name": "Smartphone",
      "category": "Electronics",
      "price": 499.99
     }

● Sharding
    Sharding is a database scaling technique used to distribute and manage large amounts of data across multiple servers or nodes, allowing for horizontal scaling.
    Database sharding is splitting data into smaller chunks, called shards,and storing them across several database servers. Ex - horizontal scaling chunks
    Sharding enables the database to handle more data and traffic by spreading the load across multiple machines, improving performance, and ensuring high availability.
     In sharding, data is partitioned into smaller subsets, known as shards. Each shard is an independent database instance responsible for storing a portion of the data. 
    This partitioning is usually done based on a specific sharding key,
    Each shard is hosted on a separate server or a group of servers that function as a single logical unit.
    These servers work together to handle read and write operations for the data within their assigned shard.
    This allows databases to handle massive amounts of data and provide faster and more scalable performance.

● Scaling
     used to increasing the capacity and performance of a system, particularly in the context of database management and server resources.

● Vertical Scaling
    Upgrading the existing resources to handle more work.
    Vertical scaling, also known as "scaling up," involves increasing the capacity of a single server or machine by adding more resources to it. 
    In this approach, the system's capacity is increased by upgrading the existing hardware, such as adding more CPU cores, RAM, or storage to a single machine.
● horizontal Scaling 
     Adding more servers and distributing the workload among them. It's like expanding the number of pizza ovens and chefs in your restaurant
     to serve more customers concurrently.
     the system's capacity is increased by adding more resources in parallel, typically by adding more servers to a server cluster.

● GridFs
   used to store and retrieve large files, such as images, videos, audio files, and other binary data. It is specifically designed to handle
   files that exceed the BSON document size limit in MongoDB, which is typically 16 MB. GridFS allows you to break down large files into smaller
   chunks and store them as separate documents in MongoDB, making it suitable for managing and serving large files efficiently.

● NameSpace
   In MongoDB, a "namespace" is a term used to refer to a combination of a database name and a collection name.
    eg:db.products.find().

● Transaction
    A transaction in MongoDB is like a safe box that holds a group of actions.
    Transactions ensure that either all the operations in the group are executed successfully, or none of them are executed at all. This property is known as atomicity, 

    Imagine you have a banking application that needs to transfer money from one account to another. 
    This transfer involves two operations: deducting the money from the sender's account and adding the money to the recipient's account.
     Without transactions, if one operation succeeds and the other fails (e.g., due to a server error or network interruption), the system might
      end up in an inconsistent state where money is lost or duplicated.

With transactions, you can combine these two operations into a single transaction. MongoDB ensures that either both the deduction and addition
 happen successfully, or none of them happen, leaving the data in a consistent state. This means that if any part of the transaction fails,
  MongoDB will automatically roll back (undo) any changes made within that transaction.

  Acid properties
    it ensure the reliability and consistency of transactions in a database management system
    Atomomicity
    consistency
    isolation
    durability
--->
In MongoDB, an "embedded document" (also known as an embedded object) refers to a data structure that allows you to store nested or complex data within a single document. 

--->In MongoDB, the unset operation is used to remove a specific field from a document. It allows you to delete a field and its value from a document,
 effectively reducing the document's size and modifying its structure.